# [052257](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf) 4

## [Page 1](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=1) 0

### IGNORE

^ "S A window open on the world
nLourier
July 1972 (25th year) - U K 13p - North America : 50 cts - France: 1,70 F

## [Page 2](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=2) 0

### IGNORE

TREASURES
OF
WORLD ART
(J) IRELAND
Winged calf \
Unmatched for its minutely worked-out ornamentation, the Book of Kells,
sari" 8th-9th century Celtic gospel book, is the work of monks who settled at
Kells in the region of Meath, Ireland. Above, detail of one of its illustrations,
the Vitulus or "Calf" symbol of St. Luke. The Book of Kells is now in the Library '-
of Trinity College, Dublin. Capitals at the beginning of each paragraph are made
of brightly coloured entwinements of birds, snakes, distorted men and animals,
fighting or performing all sorts of acrobatic feats. Our illustration is reproduced
from "Irish Illuminated Manuscripts", a set of 24 colour'transparencies in
Unesco's " Painting and Sculpture" series (Editions Rencontre, Lausanne and
Paris; approx. $10). A paperback book with the same title is published*
in the Unesco Pocket Art Series (Fontana Books. Collins, London, 30p ;
Mentor-Unesco, New Amer. Libr., New York, $1.25). J

## [Page 3](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=3) 0

### IGNORE

Courier
JULY 1972
25TH YEAR
PUBLISHED IN 12 LANGUAGES
English
French
Spanish
Russian
German
Arabic
Japanese
Italian
Hindi
Tamil
Hebrew
Persian
Published monthly by UNESCO
The United Nations
Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization
Sales and Distribution Offices 3
Unesco, Place de Fontenoy, Paris-7".
Annual subscription rates: £1.30 stg.; $5.00
(North America); 17 French francs or
equivalent; 2 years :£ 2.30 stg.; 30 F. Single
copies : 1 3 p stg. ; 50 cents : 1 .70 F.
The UNESCO COURIER is published monthly, except
in August and September when it is bi-monthly (11 issues a
year) in English, French, Spanish, Russian, German, Arabic,
Japanese, Italian, Hindi, Tamil, Hebrew and Persian. For list
of distributors see inside back cover.
Individual articles and photographs not copyrighted may
be reprinted providing the credit line reads "Reprinted from
the UNESCO COURIER,* plus date of Issue, and three
voucher copies are sent to the editor. Signed articles re¬
printed must bear author's name. Non-copyright photos
will be supplied on request Unsolicited manuscripts cannot
be returned unless accompanied by an international reply
coupon covering postage. Signed articles express the
opinions of the authors and do not necessarily represent
the opinions of UNESCO or those of the editors of the
UNESCO COURIER.
The Unesco Courier is indexed monthly in the Read¬
ers' Guide to Periodical Literature, published by
H. W. Wilson Co., New York, and in Current Con¬
tents - Education, Philadelphia, U.S.A.
Editorial Offices
Unesco, Place de Fontenoy, Paris-7», France
Editor-in-Chief
Sandy Koffler
Assistant Editor-in-Chief
René Caloz
Assistant to the Editor-in-Chief
Olga Rodel
English Edition
French Edition
Spanish Edition
Russian Edition
German Edition
Arabic Edition
Japanese Edition
Italian Edition
Hindi Edition
Tamil Edition
Hebrew Edition
Persian Edition
Page
1972
International
Book Year
11
12
16
18
22
26
28
32
33
34
Managing Editors
: Ronald Fenton (Paris)
: Jane Albert Hesse (Paris)
: Francisco Fernández-Santos (Paris)
: Georgi Stetsenko (Paris)
: Hans Rieben (Berne)
: Abdel Moneim El Sawi (Cairo)
: Kazuo Akao (Tokyo)
: Maria Remiddi (Rome)
: Kartar Singh Duggal (Delhi)
: N.D. Sundaravadivelu (Madras)
: Alexander Peli (Jerusalem)
: Fereydoun Ardalan (Teheran)
Assistant Editors
English Edition : Howard Brabyn
French Edition : Philippe Ouannès
Spanish Edition : Jorge Enrique Adoum
Illustrations : Anne-Marie Maillard
Research : Zoé Allix
Layout and Design : Robert Jacquemin
All correspondence should be addressed
to the Editor-in-Chief
A YEAR UNDER THE SIGN OF THE BOOK
By Julian Behrstock
BOOK, DEAR FRIEND
By Jorge Enrique Adoum
BIRCH BARK BOOKS
OF ANCIENT NOVGOROD
Photo story
THE BOOKS PEOPLE READ
A Unesco inquiry
By Edward Wegman
NEW WAYS TO PROMOTE READING
A Tunisian school experiment
By Chadly Fitourt
FOR THE EAGER EYES OF CHILDREN
Photo story
RENAISSANCE OF ARAB THOUGHT
AND LITERATURE
By Philippe Ouannès
THE WORD-SHRINKERS
By Howard Brabyn
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
IN THE SERVICE OF SCHOLARSHIP
By Maurice English
NEW COPYRIGHT REVISION
MEANS MORE BOOKS FOR THE THIRD WORLD
By Georges Ravelonanosy
BOOKS AROUND THE WORLD
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
TREASURES OF WORLD ART
Winged calf (Ireland)
BOOK, DEAR FRIEND
On every continent posters
now mark the worldwide impact of
International Book Year 1972.
The cover of this issuiä the second
devoted in 1972 to Unesco's
international campaign for the promotion
of books is an IBY poster by Claude
Hayon (C.R.P., Paris) executed for
the Association of French Booksellers.
The text has been added.
3

## [Page 4](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=4) 2

### 52256: A Year under the sign of the book

A YEAR
UNDER THE SIGN
OF THE BOOK
"All that Mankind has done,
thought, gained or been; it is
lying as in magic preservation in
the pages of books." Thomas
Carlyle. Right, "The Librarian",
by the Italian painter Giuseppe
Arcimboldo (1527-1593).
by Julian Behrstock
f%S it passed the mid-point
there was evidence that International
Book Year was catching hold all over
the world. Upwards of 100 countries
were carrying out national plans. Pub¬
lishers, authors, librarians, book¬
sellers and their national and inter¬
national organizations were united in
unprecedented fashion behind the ob¬
jectives of the Year. Trade unions,
welfare groups, churches and youth
organizations were enlisting their mem¬
bers in special book activities. Press,
radio and television were focussed on
books. Mail pouring in to the Unesco
Secretariat signalled a great ground-
swell of public support.
What are the main issues of Inter¬
national Book Year? First, there is a
book shortage so acute in many parts
of the world as to be called a "book
famine". Second, there are not
enough authors to meet the immense
hunger for reading matter. Thirdly,
until the reading habit becomes in¬
grained, books cannot play their full
role in promoting social and economic
development. Finally, there is growing
concern about the content of books in
relation to educational advancement
and international understanding.
It is precisely these four issues that
were singled out by Unesco's General
Conference when it decided by
acclamation to proclaim 1972 as Inter¬
national Book Year. These are like¬
wise the main subjects of this issue of
the "Unesco Courier".
4
JULIAN BEHRSTOCK la Director of Unesco's
Office of Free Flow of Information, which is
responsible for International Book Year.
He organized the series of Unesco book
development meetings for Asia (1966), Africa
(1968), Latin America (1969), and the Arab
States (1972). Before joining Unesco, he
was an editor on current history for a U.S.
encyclopaedia.
Examples abound of action taken
throughout the world in response to
this Unesco initiative:
Thailand has initiated free distribu¬
tion of textbooks to students in rural
areas. Malaysia and Rwanda are build¬
ing national libraries. Brazil is install¬
ing public libraries in all commu¬
nities. Dahomey, Ethiopia, Indonesia,
Kenya and Nepal are setting up natio¬
nal book development councils. Japan
and the Arab Republic of Egypt are
convening regional book development
conferences.
International Pen, the well-known
writers' organization, has launched a
programme for multi-national publica¬
tion of children's books. The Tokyo
Book Development Centre has start¬
ed a "reading materials project" involv¬
ing joint publication of books for chil¬
dren in Asian languages. More than a
score of countries are offering special
literary and translation prizes.
The French Government is present¬
ing six literary classics as a gift to
each couple who get married this year.
A foundation in the United States is
offering one million books for students
and libraries in Asia in 1972. The
Federal Republic of Germany is en¬
couraging the reading habit among
students by placing posters in every
classroom in the country.
The U.S.S.R. is convening a Unesco
symposium in Moscow on "Books in
the Service of Peace, Humanism and
Progress". Canada will hold a meeting
for the establishment of an Interna¬
tional Association of University Pres¬
ses. India, as part of national book
celebrations, has launched a nation¬
wide campaign for "books for the mil¬
lions".
What explains this extraordinary
surge? What accounts for the fervour,
CONTINUED PAGE 6
I
I
I
ÏÏÏ
I
I

### 188090: Book, dear friend

by
Jorge Enrique Adoum
JORGE ENRIOUE ADOUM, Ecuadorian poet
and writer, was formerly National Director
for Culture at Ecuador's Ministry of
Education. He has also been Director of
the Publications Division of Ecuador's Insti¬
tute of Culture and Secretary of its Theatre
and Folklore Institute. He Is now assistant
editor of the Spanish edition of the 'Unesco
Courier'.

## [Page 5](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=5) 0

### 188090: Book, dear friend

i>
BRADBURY, whose
science fiction predictions have often
proved uncannily accurate (one of his
characters was walking through a
park carrying a transistor many years
before that mini-radio was invented),
has given us the picture of a night¬
mare world in which a police state
passes sentence of death on books.
More recently, some sociologists,
humanists and technologists, interpret¬
ing certain statistics far removed from
the realm of science fiction and
literature, have also prophesied the
disappearance of books owing to the
large-scale development of modern
mass media.
There is nothing new in this ; every
age has been fearful of inventions and
technical innovations which might
endanger the survival of its existing
culture, without understanding that
such innovations were the products
of a continually evolving culture.
When the gramophone was invented,
it was said that the concert halls would
have to close; but the result was that
the works of great composers were
brought into the home and the gramo¬
phone thus helped to make music-
lovers of people who otherwise would
never have gone to a concert.
When the cinema became some¬
thing of a ritual meeting-place for
urban man, it was thought that this
would mean the end of the theatre;
but after nearly a century of this
"twentieth century art", the theatre has
developed along new lines, partly
by adopting cinematographic tech¬
niques which have also had an
influence on literature, as can be seen
in the novels of John Dos Passos.
Sound radio, after starting by
adapting literary works, created a new
CONTINUED NEXT PAGE
5

## [Page 6](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=6) 2

### 52256: A Year under the sign of the book

6
UNDER THE SIGN OF THE BOOK
(Continued from page 4)
the almost emotional overtone of much
of the reaction? After all, books have
existed for many hundreds of years.
International Years are enterprises so
vast in scope that they almost inevita¬
bly tend to be impersonal in character.
It is difficult to single out any one
reason. The overriding impression,
however, is that International Book
Year has evoked a latent feeling, far
more widespread and profound than
anyone ever realized, of the impor¬
tance of books. In a world in wh?:h
books have come to be taken for
granted, there is a sudden realization
of what reading could mean.
As' one legislator put it when h.s
country's Parliament proclaimed Inter¬
national Book Year: "Scarcely a lit¬
erate man or woman lives today who
cannot point to at least one book
which has influenced his life in some
way". This personal reaction is the
recurring theme in a host of state¬
ments ranging from newpaper edit¬
orials to messages from national
leaders. Monarchs, presidents, prime
ministers, ministers of education and
culture have noted the effects of read¬
ing on their own development.
The celebrations have a festive note.
Book fairs are being held in all con¬
tinents. Brightly illustrated book pos¬
ters adorn shop windows, kiosks and
libraries, and find an unaccustomed
place on public billboards. Special
commemorative stamps are being issu¬
ed in a sizeable number of countries,
while other countries are post-marking
all letters with IBY slogans. Postage
stamps and posters alike, no less than
book jackets, letter-heads, book mar¬
kers and shopping bags, are making
use of the IBY symbol: two jaunty
figures linking arms within bookcovers,
which has become the hallmark of
Book Year throughout the world.
International non-governmental org¬
anizations were Unesco's allies at the
planning stage of Book Year and this
link has been maintained by the crea¬
tion of an international Support Com¬
mittee made up of representatives of
authors, publishers, booksellers, libra¬
rians and documentalists. One of its
first activities was the adoption of a
statement setting forth in ten articles
the principles that should apply to
books. This Charter of the Book,
which has been placed on the agenda
of meetings all over the world, pro¬
mises to be one of the lasting accom¬
plishments of International Book Year.
1972 may indeed mark a turning
point in the long history of the book
by helping to translate into reality the
IBY slogan "Books for AN". If that hap¬
pens, it will be in large part because
1972 was "International Book Year
for All".

### 188090: Book, dear friend

BOOK, DEAR FRIEND (Continued from page 5)
Masterworks and fire-works
genre which the poet Dylan Thomas,
for Instance, used with great poetic
skill. Television was expected to harm
the cinema, but the relative decline
in film production is in no way com¬
mensurate with the extraordinary
increase in the number of television
sets throughout the world.
Tape recordings supplied the raw
material for the classic works of Oscar
Lewis on the culture of poverty, for
a Truman Capote novel and for some
sociological studies of the Cuban
writer Miguel Barnet. And it is not
too much to expect that with the
development of electronics poetry will
once again become the song which
it originally was by definition and
which printing and our civilization
transformed into a written text thus
obliging Mallarmé and other poets to
replace silences by large blank
spaces and the intonations of the
voice by different typographical
characters.
Fear for the future of books derives
from the fact that films, radio, tele¬
vision, comic strips and periodicals
take up most of one's leisure. But
there were always diversions of some
kind, differing according to class,
place and time sport, story-telling
round the fire, visits, card-playing,
games of chance, time spent at the
club.
On the other hand, mass media

## [Page 7](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=7) 0

### 188090: Book, dear friend

Left, Japanese print by the 18th century artist Torii Kiyonobu II. At the top of this book-pedlar's
pack is a box containing a series of classic short stories and novels. Below, a scene from
Fahrenheit 451. a film directed by François Truffant and based on the book by Ray Bradbury.
Book and film call to mind the burning of such famous libraries as those of Padua, Ferrara,
Cordova, Amsterdam, Brussels and other more recent episodes in the long and sinister series
of book-burnings going back at least as far as 600 B.C., as these words from Maccabees I testify:
"They have destroyed the Book of the Law and have cast its leaves into the flames."
Photo © Films du Carosse. Pans
make books familiar to a wider public.
Consider how many novels whatever
their . quality have become world
bestsellers after the commercial
success of the film based on them.
Think of Kafka's The Trial, Emily
Bronte's Wuthering Heights, Paster¬
nak's Dr. Jivago, Norman Mailer's
The Naked and the Dead, and the
worldwide popularity of Shakespeare.
In France a television version of
Galsworthy's Forsyte Saga created a
demand for a paperback edition of
the work, and a series on surrealism
trebled the sales of works on that
movement. Many years ago, when
Orson Welles was still the enfant
terrible of Hollywood, his alarm¬
ingly imaginative radio adaptation
of The War of the Worlds pushed the
sales of works by his English near
namesake H. G. Wells up to the level
of daily newspaper circulation.
Despite gloomy predictions, there¬
fore, the fact remains that in 1970 alone
over half a million titles were publish¬
ed, most of them in Europe, the Soviet
Union and the United States pre¬
cisely where mass media, indicators
of economic and cultural development,
are most widely established. In Latin
America, however, barely 15,000 titles
were published in 1970, for a popu¬
lation of nearly 280 million.
Despite the aggravation of various
community problems and conflicts, our
age is no worse than previous ones.
In the last twenty years 800 million
persons have become literate, and for
them the book, once an inaccessible
object, is beginning to be the object of
veneration which it was originally In
any civilization.
The Jewish Torah, the Christian
Bible, the Moslem Koran, the Maya
Quiche Indian Popol Vuh, Book of
Chilam-Balam and Annals of the Cak-
chiqueles, were all unique objects for
handing down something sacred which
had to be conserved from generation
to generation.
Even today the book still has the
same function. The Egyptians who
strove tenaciously to protect their pap¬
yrus from damage by insect pests and
humidity were perhaps thinking of us,
just as the countries which generously
co-operated In the task of saving and
restoring documents damaged a few
years ago in the Florence floods were
thinking of the men of tomorrow.
A book was sacred both for its con¬
tent and as an object; a moral treatise
entitled "Table of Merits and De¬
merits" of the Yuan dynasty (1297-
1367) counts 5 minus points for throw¬
ing away a paper with writing on it
and 3 for reading a book with dirty
hands (causing the death of a human
CONTINUED NEXT PAGE
7

## [Page 8](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=8) 0

### 188090: Book, dear friend

8
BOOK, DEAR FRIEND (Continued)
being and offending the gods rated
1,000 minus points, and drinking to in¬
toxication, minus one).
Even without its religious content the
book is still a sacred object. The
older peasants of Paraguay still keep
their books in the corner of the room
alongside a statue of the Virgin.
Aldous Huxley has explained in "If My
Library Burned" the reasons why he
would repurchase the books which he
could not live without, and while each
of us would perhaps compile a differ¬
ent list, the attitude to the object
would still be the same.
Today, the burning or destruction of
books is the crime which, next to geno¬
cide perhaps, provokes the greatest
repugnance. But unfortunately, it was
only too common in the past. In the
year 213 B.C. the Emperor Ts'in Shi-
huaugti ordered the burning of all
wooden tablets the books of the time
to punish the writers who had criti¬
cized his policy or, according to
legend, so that people should speak
only of him and his two almost incred¬
ible deeds the destruction of books
and the construction of the Great Wall
of China. But some tablets were saved
and were surely the earliest clandes¬
tine literature, while the persons who
kept them were the first men to risk
their lives for a book.
The Medes destroyed the library of
Asurbanipal, the Christians the library
of Alexandria, King Edward the Sixth's
commissioners the famous Oxford Uni¬
versity library dating from the four¬
teenth century, the Reformation
brought the destruction of the monas¬
tic libraries, and the deplorable "autos
da fé" symbolized the Middle Ages
and the medieval mentality. "La Car¬
magnole" reminds us that the books of
Jean-Jacques Rousseau were burned,
and the Spanish colonial authorities
burned the "Declaration of the Rights
of Man and the Citizen".
But as it is impossible since the in¬
vention of printing to get rid of a book
completely, a more practical method
was to burn the authors. Luther ad¬
vised all town councillors to spare
neither effort nor expense in establish¬
ing good bookshops and libraries.
But Calvin had Michel Servet sent to
the stake. The Vatican libraries con¬
tained treasures of human knowledge,
but a Papal Council condemned Gior¬
dano Bruno and John Huss to the fire.
Today in many "underdeveloped-
countries which are carrying out litera¬
cy campaigns, the burning of books in
public has been replaced by small fires
in post offices and Customs houses
and by the confiscation of books in
private libraries. Excess of zeal on
the part of some officials ordered to
destroy all "red" literature they find
has led them in some cases to burn
Louis Baudln's Socialist Empire of the
Incas, Stephen Crane's Red Badge of
Courage and even Baroness Orczy's
Scarlet Pimpernel.
And Don Quixote's maidservant who
said that all the books in her master's
An engraving by Cornelis Woudhanus of the library of the famous
University of Leyden (Netherlands) in 1610. As in other librarías of
the day, books were chained to the shelves. At that time the Leyden
University library consisted of twenty-two bookcases of about 40
books each. The relative importance attached to the various disciplines
can be judged from the fact that there were six bookcases of
library should be burned, without ex¬
ception, since they were all to blame
for his lucid "madness", already fore¬
shadows the mother who blames books
in general for her son's revolt against
the consumer society which offers him
little indeed apart from the absolute
tyranny exerted by "things".
In essence, the publisher's function
is similar to that of the orchestra con¬
ductor or the theatrical producer: to
bring the individual creative work to
other people; but his range is even
greater than theirs. It may span the
oceans and the centuries. Horace
prided himself that his poems were
read from the coasts of the Black Sea
to the banks of the Rhone and the
Ebro; and today there are pocket edi¬
tions of the Vedas and the Uppanis-
hads which before the Second World
War were known in the West only
to somewhat esoteric societies in
England.
WiITH the advent of printing,
the .art of calligraphy, which has such
significance in Eastern cultures reli¬
gious significance in Persia, decorative
significance on a level with painting in
China where the name of the calligra-
phist is sometimes known when the
name of the author of the poem has
been forgotten was replaced by the
art of typography, and Gothic illumina¬
tion by woodcuts and etchings. Paint¬
ing and even architecture were drawn
into its field, bindings were decorated
with gold and silver and glass. Today
the "object-book" is beginning to be
turned into the "book-object", akin to
sculpture. The graphic arts have
reached full maturity and a special sec¬
tion of the New York Museum of
Modern Art is devoted to them.
Like all creations of the human spirit,
books were converted into merchan¬
dise almost from the outset. Egypt
carried on a trade in the Book of the
Dead (which had to accompany the
mummy on its journey to the shades);.
Xenophon refers in the Anabasis to
the book trade between Greece and its
colonies ; it is said that Alexander pre¬
sented Cleopatra with 200,000 manu¬
scripts from the library of Pergamum
and books were treasured by the
Romans as spoils of war. In the 16th
century, German pirate editions (pro¬
duced mainly at the expense of the
Danes) founded many a fortune.
Luxury collections have now estab¬
lished a category of privileged per¬
sons within an already privileged class.
The opulent customer asking for
"bound books" (not caring whether he
gets Testut's Anatomy or the memoirs
of some statesman) has his precursors
in the wealthy Romans who thought it
good tone to own a library, but who
were described by Seneca as being far
more ignorant than the slaves they
bought to copy the books.
Printing brought the written work to
a greater number of persons, but it
also meant that more people had an
opportunity to write books. Later this
grew Into an industry, involving the
calculation of costs, market prospects
and utility margins, and so it is pos¬
sible and indeed necessary for com-

## [Page 9](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=9) 0

### 188090: Book, dear friend

theology, five of law, four of history, two each of philosophy,
literature and medicine, and one of mathematics and science. ' A
worldwide survey undertaken by Unesco (see page 12) shows that,
among books published today, literature holds first place, technology
and industry second place, and political science third, clear evidence
of the way our civilization has changed in the course of four centuries.
'Teachers and
companions who
never doze when
questioned...'
Erasmus
mercial interests to impose a work in
the same way as a brand of toothpaste.
The North American writer Saul Bel¬
low has said that it is possible to write
a good book on poverty in the United
States and become a millionaire to
say nothing of the publisher's profits.
Of course other books as harmful as
drugs or poison are also put on the
market (a book published in Germany
in 1925 caused the death of 40 million
people) and there are writers who have
far more talent for making money out
of seamy literature than for writing a
good book.
Certainly there have always been
good writers and bad writers. Sven
Dahl, in his History of the Book, rela¬
tes that it was customary for writers
to read their recent works to a group
of friends, as Herodotus did with his
historical works. But this practice de¬
generated Into a nuisance, as the
worst writers were also the most
anxious to seize any opportunity to
read their works.
The publishing industry, when back¬
ed by adequate publicity and prompt¬
ed solely by the desire to make money,
has contributed, together with the
other media, to a depreciation of lit¬
erature and has converted the dissem¬
ination of knowledge into a low-
grade popularization.
Being consumer oriented, it follows
the preferences of the "public". But
of course there is no single public,
merely readers who, as countless sur¬
veys show, choose a book because it
has been recommended by a critic or
a friend, because of the author's name,
or because of its title or its cover.
The diversity of public "taste" is
reflected in the world statistics of the
authors and works most translated in
1969: Lenin, Jules Verne, Shakespeare
and Simenon (the first victory of Mai¬
gret over James Bond).
The Assyrians made roads or floors
with clay tablets whose contents were
no longer of interest; nowadays the
housewife uses out-of-date or trashy
publications to wedge an unsteady
table or to light a fire. But when we
see, in the "Third World" countries, a
saleswoman reading a romance or a
liftboy with a Western, we feel they
have at least taken the first step and
that perhaps they may manage to take
the second from liking reading to
seeking good books.
I HE terms "daily", or
"weekly", which refer to the frequency
of publication, also indicate how long
the interest lasts; such publications
provide news and news changes even
before the ink on them has dried.
The medium is not the message, but
it determines its duration. A couple
carving the symbol of their love on a
tree (the Greek and Latin words
byblos and liber meaning "book",
something lasting, originally meant
tree-bark) are not only, like the writer,
obeying the impulse to communicate
something to other people, but also
sharing his secret longing that it should
last forever. On the other hand, the au¬
thor of "graffiti" on city walls knows
that the slogan will pass from mouth
to mouth and may endure, even though
the writing and symbols are effaced
within the day.
It is not the new media which threaten
the life of the book, but the use made
of them. Some modern European re¬
views are the equivalent of books of
essays. Stories in pictures were known
in Mexico before the arrival of the
Spaniards; in China they are used
for recounting the lives of heroes
and in Ecuador they have been used
for teaching national history.
If the danger lay in the media them¬
selves, planned societies would have
managed to limit their growth and
Influence. For there is no doubt that
while the cinema, radio, press and tele¬
vision are not Culture neither are
books they nevertheless are part of
culture.
It is not just by chance that the big¬
gest libraries in the world are in Wash¬
ington, London, Moscow and Paris.
Nor is it mere chance that in the thea¬
tres of the Soviet Union books are
sold where in Western theatres ices
and sweets are the rule; that it is prac¬
tically Impossible to find a passenger
in an English train who is not reading;
and that nearly all works' committees
¡n French industry run a library.
Unesco's intention in proclaiming
1972 International Book Year is not to
save the book's life: its objective is
clearly expressed in the theme of the
campaign: "Books for AN". For as
all the institutions taking part ¡n this
crusade realize, ¡t is not that the hab¬
it of reading is going to disappear but
that it has not yet become to many
CONTINUED NEXT PAGE
9

## [Page 10](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=10) 0

### 188090: Book, dear friend

10
BOOK, DEAR FRIEND (Continued)
peoples of the world a daily need that
must be satisfied.
That is due to illiteracy, to the lack
of funds for buying books, to the dis¬
like of reading instilled in many
schools which still retain a mania for
chronological teaching and force
youngsters to begin by reading the
Iliad, the Odyssey, the Divine Comedy
or the Aeneid. For if the definition of
a classic as "the mature work of a
mature age" holds for the author, it
also applies to the reader.
The cultural leaders of certain so¬
cieties aspire to the marvellous utopia
of making every factory or farm wor¬
ker an artist, a writer or a scholar;
at the opposite pole of historical dev¬
elopment the aim is that everyone
should read what others have written.
In Cuba, since 1959 and following a
nation-wide literacy campaign under
the slogan "We do not tell the people
to believe, but to read", the Nation¬
al Institute of the Book has produced
an average of 13i million copies of
books each year for a population of
8è million. Yet in my country, Ecua¬
dor, barefoot boys pay 20 cents to
read old dog-eared magazines in a
yard used as a "reading room".
Technological progress will bring
easier access to books and they will
take up less space, but they will still
be "writing", in the form of microfilms,
micro-size books or microfiches.
But what if the book were to disap¬
pear after five thousand years of his¬
tory, and ¡f the dreadful vision of
Bradbury's inhuman mechanized world
were to come true. This would hap¬
pen if we had ceased to deserve that
object to which we can always turn,
which transports us to other places
and other times and introduces us to
extraordinary beings whom we would
otherwise never have known, ideas
which we should never have discover¬
ed for ourselves; to the dictionary
whose pages we turn eagerly plung¬
ing into the intriguing labyrinth of lan¬
guage that "work of art" which we
would never lend to anyone, in whose
margins we do not dare to scribble
notes, that book which in our youth
cost us three weeks'walking to school
or for which we gave up two visits to
the cinema or even went without cig¬
arettes.
If that day comes, we shall surely
hear a voice on the public loud¬
speakers intoning "E = mc2". But
knowing the human spirit and its ten¬
acious striving for freedom and cul¬
ture, there will undoubtedly be under¬
ground radio stations which will con¬
tinue to proclaim from somewhere or
other, at least as an oral tradition, the
thoughts of the great writers of the
"past": "Life is a tale told by an
idiot, full 'of sound and fury, signifying
nothing", or "Happiness is the belat¬
ed realization of a prehistoric longing;
that is why wealth brings so little hap¬
piness: money is not a childhood
desire", or perhaps even more aptly:
"Until now we have lived only the pre¬
history of man." :

## [Page 11](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=11) 0

### 188090: Book, dear friend

%
Birch bark
books
of ancient
Novgorod
SB
fi^&>
\,-L ^*$K
s4Pfe
*S «a.^fe^ Si.
m
K-
sa
H»r
-*.*
.- ^vi
"*&«*:
Medieval birch bark manuscripts unearthed in the Soviet Union
are one of the most important archaeological finds of recent years.
The first document came to light In 1951, at Novgorod, Russia's most
ancient city (100 miles south of Leningrad). Since then more than
500 other specimens, dating from the 11th to the 15th century, have
been recovered from archaeological sites. The first known book written
on birch bark (above) was found at Novgorod in 1963. A 13th cen¬
tury prayer book, it consists of three double leaves. In medieval
Russia, birch bark was the least costly writing material and was
still in use more than a century after the appearance of paper. The
high moisture content of Novgorod's soil preserved the bark on
which writing had been cut or scratched with a sharp instrument.
Ink would have been destroyed by the moisture. The birch bark
writings relate mostly to personal matters, and thus throw new light
on many aspects of medieval life not mentioned in official chronicles.
Top left, Soviet archaeologist examines one of the Novgorod bark
fragments. He has adopted the typical beard and hair-style of medi¬
eval Novgorod. Archaeologists have managed to decipher fragments
of the old Slavonic script on the birch bark document at top of page.
They read: "...for a while to Moses. Come and help... though you
lose... my being in this. At home meanwhile...". Left, excavations
at the site of an ancient market in Novgorod where a 15th century
bark manuscript of the Psalms of David written in Latin was found
in 1971. Prof. Valentin Yanin, Assistant Director of the Novgorod
Archaeological Expedition, hopes that the search for bark manuscripts
will soon extend to other northern European countries where birch
bark writing was also mentioned by medieval chroniclers.
lotos Y. Trankvillitsky 0 APN "Soviet Union" magazine. Mosco»

## [Page 12](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=12) 0

### 52341: The Books people read: a UNESCO inquiry

A Unesco inquiry
THE BOOKS
PEOPLE READ
by Edward Wegman
IN 1970, every minute of
every day, a book was published
somewhere in the world: 546,000 titles
in all, double the output of 20 years
earlier.
Four out of five of the titles come
from a handful of nations. Europe
alone ¡s responsible for almost half
the world's production. If the output
of Japan, the United States and the
U.S.S.R. is added, you have virtually
eighty per cent of all the titles
Issued in any one year. The rest of
the world, two-thirds of humanity, thus
has comparatively little say in the
books that are available for reading.
For the most part, ¡t ¡s a foreign
publisher who makes the decision
regarding their needs and tastes.
What do people read? More often
than not, they read the books that are
readily available, and when the books
they want are not there, they sometimes
do not read at all. It is therefore
apparent that the kind of books
produced is as vital as the mere pro¬
duction of more and more books.
Subject matter has equal, or perhaps
even greater importance in meeting
the world's hunger for reading
materials.
Since books are published to be
read, an examination of the titles
selected for publication can offer an
insight into the subjects which national
publishers believe will interest their
readers. This information is available
through the answers Unesco's Member
12 EDWARD WEGMAN is Head of Unesco's
International Book Year Unit. A former
journalist (New York Times, AP. UPI) and
radio commentator, he was promotion man¬
ager of a book distributing firm before join¬
ing Unesco.
States supply to Unesco annually in
response to questionnaires on the
quantities and subject matter of books
produced. The most recent data,
relating to 1970, are contained in the
latest Unesco Statistical Yearbook (to
be published ¡n October 1972).
The Unesco questionnaire classifies
the subjects of books in 23 categories.
There is no separate classification for
textbooks, which in most cases are
included in the main subject-headings;
i.e. a geography textbook would be
found under "Geography, travel", while
an arithmetic book would be under
"Mathematics".
The most popular subject among
the world's book producers is litera¬
ture, which includes not only fiction
and poetry but also literary criticism.
More than fourteen per cent of all the
books and pamphlets issued in 1970
were concerned with literature. That
was almost double the number
published ¡n the second most popular
category, Industries. In third place
come publications in Political Science.
There is a decided drop in numbers
before we come to the next subjects,
Natural Sciences, Education, History
and Biography, Law and Arts.
Eight of the ten most important book
producers are on the list of those who
put literature first (in order of
importance as producers): United
States, Federal Republic of Ger¬
many, United Kingdom, Japan, Fran¬
ce, Spain, India and the Netherlands.
The two other major producers:
U.S.S.R. and Poland place books on
industry at the top of their production.
Although ¡n the second rank of pro¬
ducers, Mexico, one of the largest
publishers in Latin America, also puts
Industries in first place.
The countries most interested in
legal affairs are Botswana, Ceylon,
Chile, Hong Kong, Luxembourg, Peru
and Turkey, while Jamaica produces
equal numbers of titles on law and on
political science. This last subject is
the first choice of Bolivia and Ireland.
Religious books hold pride of place in
Ghana, Lebanon, Madagascar, and
Mauritius, while they share first place
with education in Kenya. Thailand
produces more books on education
than on any other subject; Jordan and
Tanzania prefer mathematics; Cam¬
eroon, Panama and Kuwait give first,
place to generalities (which Includes
government publications) while New
Zealand publishers favour agriculture.
One quarter of the books and
pamphlets published by Qatar deal
with linguistics, which also occupies
first place in Malaysia.
more detailed look at the
production of individual states is even
more enlightening. Taking the largest
and the smallest producers in each
region, one quickly runs into striking
differences in emphasis.
Of the 23 countries that participated
in the Unesco meeting of experts on
book development in Africa, at Accra
(Ghana) in 1968, only six have present¬
ed the detailed reports on which this
analysis ¡s based. While earlier data
showed that ¡n 1969 Nigeria was by
far the largest producer, Kenya had
in 1970 the most important output
among those who answered the
Unesco questionnaire. Nigeria's pro¬
duction in 1969 was over 1,000 titles,
while Kenya's was only one-tenth of
that figure. In all cases in Africa, the

## [Page 13](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=13) 0

### 52341: The Books people read: a UNESCO inquiry

Two out of seven books
published in the U.S.S.R.
deal with industry and
technology. Technical
books fill the shelves along
an entire wall of this î
Moscow bookshop. Pos¬
ters like the one seen on
the shop window, bear¬
ing the symbol of Interna- J
tional Book Year two fig- "*
ures linking arms within -
book covers are promin- ?
ently displayed in cities °
throughout the U.S.S.R. I
ppppp
»i i n
S*
number of titles was comparatively
small, corresponding to. the con¬
clusions of the Accra meeting that a
virtual book famine existed ¡n the
continent.
Kenya published 43 books and
pamphlets on religion and theology
and another 43 on education. It is
perhaps significant that throughout
English-speaking Africa, missionary
societies were among the first to install
local publishing houses, which might
account for the important place
assigned to religion.
Following well behind these subjects
come games and sports, in a country
that has a certain world reputation for
its runners: 20 titles issued. Next
come history and biography (16 titles)
and then political science (8), both
subjects of major interest to newly-
independent nations. Literature also
was picked 8 times by Kenyan pub¬
lishers, while natural sciences drew
6 titles. As indicative as the titles
selected are those in which nothing
was published: philosophy, trade,
ethnography, linguistics, commercial
techniques and arts.
Among the smallest African book
producers is Botswana. Almost half
of the 20 titles published in that
country dealt with law: four books and
four pamphlets. Four pamphlets were
concerned with generalities, while one
book and one pamphlet dealt with
political science. Geography also
drew two titles, as did agriculture.
History, biography .and commercial
techniques each resulted in one title.
While a certain amount of the book
production in both countries cited as
examples for Africa is in local lan¬
guages, a decided influence on pro
duction is undoubtedly the fact that
much of education is in English. As
a result, book Imports meet many of
their primary needs.
A somewhat similar situation exists
in French-speaking Africa, where Mad¬
agascar was one of the most prolific
publishers, with 158 titles. Religion
and theology accounted for 33 titles,
while second place went to literature,
with 31. This was followed by
political science, education and agri¬
culture.
Interest in ethnography and folklore
was comparatively high, since books
on this subject share sixth place with
publications on law. Once again, as
is the case in English-speaking Africa,
the principal textbook needs, as well
as demand for general reading
material, are met by imports.
* 1VE of the Arab States
have sent in information on book
production in 1970, according to the
Unesco recommendation. While Egypt
producted 1,872 titles ¡n 1969, the
answers to Unesco's questionnaire on
production in 1970 do not contain
statistics for that country.
In 1970, of the 594 titles published
in Lebanon, the second most important
producer in 1969, 135 dealt with
religious or theological themes.
Qatar, the smallest producer in the
region, published 99 books on 14 sub¬
jects in 1970 (see article page 22).
Asia, despite an over-all situation of
book hunger, contains two of the
giants of the publishing world: Japan,
which issued 31,249 titles in 1970, and
India, which published 14,141. There
are a number of similarities' in their
production, as well as significant dif¬
ferences. For example, both put litera¬
ture at the head of their list, and both
assign political science to second
place. In Japan, however, books on
the arts run on the heels of political
science: 2,186 titles to 2,752. In India,
not surprisingly, third place goes to
books on religion and theology, which
are far behind political science (942 to
2,717).
At the other end of the publishing
scale i.n Asia is the island State of
Singapore with 520 books and pam¬
phlets issued in 1970. While literature
is in first place, linguistics follows
closely (68 to 78 titles) which is not
surprising for a country which has
Malay, Chinese and English-speaking
populations. Natural sciences draw
the next largest group of publications
with forty-five titles, while religion was
selected forty-three times and geo¬
graphy forty. Ethnography and folklore
share last place with philosophy: three
titles each.
While book shortages exist in Latin
America, the situation is somewhat
different from the regions previously
mentioned. The problem, speaking
generally, is not so much one of
producing enough books for the region
as it ¡s of developing internal ex¬
changes that can relieve the Latin
American nations of their dependency
upon imported works.
That having being said, it becomes
apparent once one begins to look
.at the individual publication stat¬
istics of the countries of Latin Amer¬
ica that there are some, such as
Mexico and Argentina, which are
highly active publishers, others which
come close to meeting their minimal
CONTINUED NEXT PAGE
13

## [Page 14](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=14) 0

### 52341: The Books people read: a UNESCO inquiry

MARCH 18-24
BOOK WEEK 1872
KEEPING POSTED ON BOOKS
During International Book year brightly coloured
book posters have appeared on many windows of
bookshops and elsewhere. Left, "A good book is
a good friend", says this Indian poster, uniting
under its slogan a selection of works in the nation's
many languages. "Books bring people together"
proclaims, in text and image, a United States
poster, below. The Cuban poster, below right.
14
THE BOOKS PEOPLE READ (Continued)
needs and finally, a number particu¬
larly those that are geographically
small which are unable to support
economically a functioning publishing
industry. For that reason, the Unesco
meeting at Bogota in 1969 called for
major emphasis on efforts to make
available to each of the countries the
books published by the other countries
of the region.
Of the countries that participated in
the Bogota meeting, Mexico ¡s the
dominant publisher among those who
have reported their 1970 statistics
according to the Unesco recommen¬
dations, although 1969 data showed
that Brazil, with almost 6,400 titles, was
then the most important book pro¬
ducer, with Argentina in second place.
Mexico published some 5,000 titles
in 1970, of which 857 were concerned
with industry. One can almost see in
all the book statistics of this country
the concentration on development.
Medical science was in second place
with 401 titles, while third place was
devoted to education. Law books and
political science follow, with just under
300 titles each, and then commercial
techniques. Literature, history and bio¬
graphy, and the arts are next in popu¬
larity. As in most of the developing
countries, suggestions for the house¬
wife, incorporated under the heading of
domestic science, come last.
The English-speaking island of
Jamaica is at the bottom of the Latin
American list. In view of its limited
population, its production of 159 books
and pamphlets is a not inconsiderable
achievement. First place is shared by
law and political science with 21 titles
each, followed by history and bio¬
graphy with 13. Literature, philosophy
and commercial techniques make
uneasy bedfellows in next place with
12 titles each. Perhaps even more
interesting are the categories which
are not represented no books were
published on philosophy, psychology,
linguistics, philology, or mathematics.
Among the other countries in the
world, the production of the United
States, of the United Kingdom and of
the U.S.S.R. are among the most im¬
portant. The statistics from the United
States are somewhat difficult to eval¬
uate since the subject matter break¬
down is confined to non-governmen¬
tal publications, which amount to just
about one half the total output of
titles.
These tend to follow more or
less the pattern of the other ad¬
vanced publishing countries of Europe,
with first place reserved to literature
(8,246) followed by political science
(3,121) and then history and biography,
religion, natural sciences, socio¬
logy, geography, medical scien¬
ces and philosophy and psychology.
Education comes in eleventh place,
with some 1,273 titles. Books on
industry are in twelfth position. From
then on, the number of titles dips

## [Page 15](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=15) 0

### 52341: The Books people read: a UNESCO inquiry

reproduces the International Book Year slogan
in Spanish "Libros para Todos" (Books for All).
Right, French poster announcing an exhibition
organized by the Bibliothèque Nationale, in Paris,
for International Book Year. One of the most
important book exhibitions of its kind ever held,
it offers 600 treasures from the library's own
collection, including very ancient books and
manuscripts that mark the development of the
book down the ages.
below the 1,000 mark. Agriculture,
trade and transport are at the bottom
of the list.
In the United Kingdom, literature is
again in the lead, with almost
9,000 titles out of a total production
of 33,441. History and biography are
in second place, with almost the same
number of titles as political science:
just under 3,000. Next on the list is
natural science. The arts are in a
surprisingly strong fifth position, with
almost 2,000 titles. At the other end
of the scale, the least popular titles
are agriculture, domestic science,
trade and transport, military art and
ethnography and folklore in that order.
The production of France is very
similar to that of the United States
and United Kingdom, as is the selec¬
tion of subjects in the Federal Repub¬
lic of Germany, although in the latter
country, education is in second place.
The Soviet Union publishes almost
as many titles as does the United
States with 78,899 as opposed to
79,530. The choice of subjects is quite
different. Two out of every seven
books deal with industry. The next
most important subject, with one out
of seven titles, is political science.
Literature is an important third, with
almost eight thousand titles. Then
come natural sciences, commercial
techniques, agriculture, medical scien¬
ces, education and generalities. This
is followed by linguistics. The least
popular title is ethnography, in which
no books were published. There were
170 works of religion, 375 in domestic
science and 548 in geography and
travel.
There are a number of differences
between the Soviet Union and Poland,
although both put industry ¡n first
place. Poland follows that subject
very closely with literature and then
political science. At 'the bottom of
the ladder are trade and transport,
philosophy and psychology, games
and sports, domestic science, with
ethnography and folklore again bring¬
ing up the rear.
In Oceania, Australia ¡s a medium-
sized publishing country. In 1970, it
published some 5,000 books and
pamphlets. While it is a developed
nation, it is gradually shifting from
largely agricultural production toward
industrialization. The most popular
subject for publication is literature,
which occupies one tenth of its annual
book production. In second place are
books on industry, while third place
is shared by political science and law.
Suprisingly for a country noted for its
athletes, only 55 titles were concerned
with games and sports.
What does all this prove? Perhaps
nothing. And yet a social scientist
wrote recently: "You can't always tell
a book by its cover, but you can almost
always tell a person by his books."
What is true for individuals, may well
be true also for nations.

## [Page 16](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=16) 0

### 52342: New ways to promote reading: a Tunisian school experiment

A Tunisian school experiment
NEW WAYS
TO PROMOTE
READING
Reading habits are often
made or marred in the class¬
room. Specialists at the Ins¬
titute of Educational Sci¬
ences in Tunis have recently
developed reading motiva¬
tion techniques for Tunisian
schools, designed not only
to build a lifetime reading
habit, but also to improve
the way childen express
themselves orally and on
paper. Right, a general view
of Tunis; in the foreground,
the Street of the Dyers.
by Chadly Fitouri
16
^kDULTS nowadays seem to
be outspokenly critical of the way young
people express themselves. Modern
youth, in their view, are inarticulate,
hesitant, even tongue-tied, and adults
regard this ¡nartlculacy as a reflection
of the superficial lives they lead. In
their noisy demonstrations, ¡n their
songs and music, in their art and mod
expressions, it is the catch-phrase,
the cliché, the chanted slogan and the
short-lived idea which predominate.
Educators, for their part, seem to
have found only one explanation for
this decline in the level of expression:
a disinclination on the part of young
people to read.
Should we regard this an inevitable
malady of our time? Are we to hold
the mass media solely responsible
for this decline in the level of
expression among young people?
This would be too simple an explan¬
ation. Nor should we try to explain
away the opinion of adults concerning
modern youth as just another aspect
of the generation gap. It would,
perhaps, be more realistic to argue
CHADLY FITOURI is the founder of the
Institute of Educational Sciences In Tunis.
Professor at the Faculty of Letters of Tunis
University, he has written a number of stu¬
dies in Arabic and French on educational
problems in Tunisia, and has served as an
educational consultant to Unesco on several
occasions. Since 1971, he has been head
of the Division of Documentation, Studies
and Research at Unesco's International
Bureau of Education in Geneva.
that the deterioration in the ability of
young people to express themselves
is due to a general lowering in the
standard of education.
The fact is that when adults compare
the schoolchildren of their own
generation to those of today, they
apparently forget that in many coun¬
tries, yesterday's schools, and the
schools of the day before yesterday,
were much more selective than they
are now. Today the majority of pupils
are drawn from the most under¬
privileged social strata in which the
only cultural tradition is an oral "folk"
tradition.
To say that children from an under¬
privileged environment do not like
reading is therefore in no way a value
judgement, but rather a simple state¬
ment of fact.. If they do not read, if
they do not like reading, it is because
their background has never given them
any encouragement to read.
A survey carried out in Tunisia in
1967-68, for example, showed that
school libraries were either excessively
poor (even non-existent in newly
opened lycées) or useless because
the books they contained had not
been selected according to any logical
pedagogical or educational criteria.
Far from counter-balancing the short¬
comings of the pupils' social back¬
ground, schools seem generally to
aggravate them by making reading part
of the syllabus. Pupils and teachers
alike find the bi-weekly "séance de
lecture", or reading period, restrictive,
artificial and boring.
Yet facility of expression can only
be acquired through examination of
models found in written works. Becom¬
ing acquainted with the works of worth¬
while authors offers an opportunity of
experiencing many facets of the human
adventure; but more than this, on
every page the reader can see how
a skilled writer manipulates words and
builds up phrases to express emotions
or ideas in such a way that not only
is the emotion or idea made clear but
is also endowed with greater depth
and intensity.
Once reading becomes a habit, fami¬
liarity with the works of an author
leads to the participation-reading that
Henry Miller had in mind when he said
that everyone hopes when picking up
a book to meet a man after his own
heart, to experience tragedies and joys
we are too timid to elicit ourselves, to
dream dreams which make life more
enthralling and perhaps to discover a
philosophy of life which will make us
more capable of facing the trials and
problems that beset us. Participation
such as this is never passive.
Adolescence is the age of romanti¬
cism and enthusiasm; it is also, above
all, the time for reading. Few cultivat¬
ed adults fail to retain a vivid recol¬
lection of what they read during adol¬
escence; an individual's career, even
his whole personality, is often largely
determined by his reading during this
period of his life.

## [Page 17](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=17) 0

### 52342: New ways to promote reading: a Tunisian school experiment

At a time when the human element
in daily life is being eroded, it is to
be regretted that the school, whose
basic task is to help children to
develop their full human potential for
learning and living, still overlooks the
riches that intelligent reading has to
offer and the meeting point it provides
for ieacher, pupil and author.
Reading is only a means to an end,
and in devising techniques for motivat¬
ing pupils towards reading we were
guided by three key questions:
Why should we read? What should
we read? How should we read?
Our Reading Motivation Project in
Tunisia grew out of considerations
such as these. Might it not be pos
sible, we asked ourselves, to use those
same audio-visual media that are said
to discourage young people from read¬
ing to stimulate a need for reading
among pupils? In other words, on the
basis of something towards which
young people are strongly motivated,
could we not motivate them towards
other activities and in particular
towards the reading of good literature?
This was the first step.
The second stage was to make use
of the same media to stimulate reflec¬
tion, research, discussion and exchan¬
ge of ideas among young people about
what they had read, thus enabling them
to discover for themselves new hori¬
zons in reading.
In 1968, we decided to submit this
working hypothesis to the education
authorities in Tunisia, the school In¬
spectors and pedagogic advisers, and
to define the educational problem
more precisely we based our recom¬
mendations on the three questions
mentioned above.
WHY READ? Recommending a
course of reading does not necessarily
mean that the pupils will follow it,
whether the recommendation is in the
form of an order or just friendly advice.
Even the threat of examinations gives
no guarantee. We therefore decided
that we would have to break with school
tradition so as to make the pupil feel
that he himself had made the choice
CONTINUED PAGE 20
17

## [Page 18](https://demo.humlab.umu.se/courier/052257engo.pdf#page=36) 0

### IGNORE

m&*%
ÎIBI
suer i 9iJíí¡'
HH
9Z26
86lbi. ut 8qm9tnn^|p|
asi ínsaaBiio "*ÂT ßl 6'JO^ H^73-P|
feaeb el Ji6naiq9i qmb~ *" i9i.B'b ^ft .3j
ê èvôi înioq Ii-ji6vß*n eonBinô noeàut^
», TimoD íineveb zöupßeoo eifny
aliVtttfe sr
«mmOD ¿¿Í82UB 9Qßlfl
Iev6^.^xuß9qu^
Ji6\9^n 9\b ia^ug rter.qèJ3 t
86l
M>
V
" «pWppfl »b v«
nu quon i
2ulq 91KX1
-àîôo 9b «6q ¡
bidfiO 9g 19
Iuoj .9>ono¿ lyMpW «tn».*
M )upwq6 h tnñ ri »b «nag
lUMFVIOMitllflil-l-riVJMilm
wt «mtpVq wfo ¡pm
; stoeqam no'upMpi wMMbti
9Tr9f 9b îiJWehKK 9» fc ll
§8i$fc
íí«i
SB
'm¡&.
;fl|
»PP
Ki
Hi
. ;>üSr.
î*» I. . ,» ;VIS
HtpsstsHIIH
I»
p^H
Si^V
s*S
Photo IBM-France, Paris
BOOKS FOR ALL
Every minute of every day a book is published somewhere in the world : about 550,000
titles a year, double the output of 20 years ago. But four out of five of the titles still
come from a handful of nations (see page 12). International Book Year 1972, with its
slogan "Books for AM", has focused world attention on the serious imbalance in book
production and distribution. Here, a technician at a book-printing plant checks the
quality of cellophane proofs used in photo-offset printing.